#Materials and Methods

##Broodstock and Larvae
Sites for adaptively different broodstock were selected based on which Puget Sound basin and distance between sites as well as other parameters such as water temperatures, historic studies of the species in the region, and anecdotal evidence of dissimilarities between populations. We chose Dabob Bay, Fidalgo Bay, and Oyster Bay to collect broodstock. Puget Sound Restoration Fund collected broodstock (n= 600) in November 2012. The animals were conditioned at the Port Gamble until June 2013 and spawned. Larvae from each population were pooled and reared under flowing water conditions and fed microalgae ad libitum. The seed oysters were set on microcultch and cultivated until they reached shell length of 5 mm. 
##Outplant and Conditioning
From each population, 480 oysters (n =1440), we placed in trays in Clam Bay, WA. Originally the trays were placed at a subtidal elevation but to avoid extreme temperature events, the trays were relocated to a floating dock and hung in groups of three trays. The samples remained at the site from August 2013 to April 2015 to grow and develop. A previous study (Heare et al., 2015) monitored mortality, growth, and reproduction at the site for 1 year. Due to limited mortality at this site, 100 oysters were collected from each population (n = 300) in April 2015. All samples were conditioned in a closed aquarium system to a temperature of ????? for ????? weeks. They were fed on a daily basis with commercial shellfish feed until the experiment. 
##Experiment
The populations were then split into two groups with 25 oysters in the Control group, 25 heat stress exposed, 25 freshwater exposed, and 25 heat stress and freshwater exposed. The control group will remain submerged in 14 C / 25 ppt salt water for the duration of the experiment. The heat stress group will be exposed to air and a heat lamp raising internal temperature to 35+ C for 1 hour. The freshwater group will be submerged in 14 C / 5 ppt freshwater for 24 hours. Finally the combined stress will be exposed to heat lamp for 1 hour and then submerged in 14 C/ 5 ppt water for 24 hours. After both freshwater exposed groups have undergone the 24 hour salinity stress, they will be transferred back into normal salt water. 
##Sampling
Using RNAlater and flame sterilized equipment, mantle and ctenidia tissues will be collected from 10 oysters in each group from each population 1 hour post heat stress. After 24 hours, a second sample of 5 oysters from each population in each group will be collected. The remaining ten oysters will be monitored for 7 days post the experiment for mortality events. At the end of the week, the remaining oysters will also be sampled for mRNA using the same protocol. 
##qPCR
